So last week, Pastor Doug introduced this four-part series on prayer.
And if you look to our screens here, you're gonna see the rest of the series and what it looks like.
The first one was pause.
Today, we'll be talking about reflection and rejoicing.
Then next week, we'll talk about what it means to ask God for help.
And finally, what does it mean to yield to him?
If you didn't get a chance to come last week, I wanna encourage you to go back and listen to the message.
It was a message that was life-changing for me.
It was a message that helped me incredibly.
Pausing and learning to pause is a practice.
I don't know about you, but I live a very fast-paced life.
I don't have a lot of time to just pause.
I don't have a lot of time to sit.
Every time I sit, there's an alert or there's a child or there's a need that I've got to step into and my life can be very frenetic.
And so Pastor Doug talked a lot about what it means to practice the verb aspects of pausing and praying.
And what it means to transition into the noun aspects of pausing and praying.
What do you mean?
I mean, the verb shows action.
There will be times that you pause and you completely mess it up.
You're there for 20 seconds.
It feels like 20 minutes.
And then you find yourself distracted and moving on to the next thing.
And there will be other times as you practice it, you realize it's becoming a part of your life.
And that means that you've got to try.
That means that you gotta step in and discover how the Lord would speak to you and use you in your moments, because everybody's will look just a little bit different, but if you don't start, you won't ever develop it or see it.
And so there is this verse in Luke chapter 11, verse one.
And this verse just inspires me in the midst of my journey to pray.
In this verse, we discover the one thing that the disciples asked
Jesus to teach them.
Now catch that for me, let that sink into your mind.
There was one thing that the disciples asked Jesus to teach them.
Can you imagine that?
Like you were with the greatest teacher in the world.
You're with a man who performed miracles, raised dead people to life, caused people that were deaf to hear, caused people who were blind to see.
They were with the greatest teacher, yet they only asked him to teach them one thing.
And you'll find it there in Luke chapter 11, verse one.
It'll be there up on your screens.
what we see there is one day Jesus was praying in a certain place.
And when he finished, one of his disciples said to him, Lord, you see that?
Teach us to pray.
Just as John taught his disciples, Pastor Doug shared that with us last week, but I wanted to highlight for you the very truth that these disciples saw Jesus connecting with their heavenly father.
And it was such a beautiful connection that they were drawn to it.
They were like, I really want that relationship with the Lord.
I want to understand what it means to connect with God in that special way.
It was so attractive that they said, please teach us this practice.
Please teach us what it means to connect with the heavenly Father.
And I gotta be honest with you.
If you were to ask me a couple of years ago, hey, Reuben, how's your prayer life?
I'd say, oh, pretty good, man.
You know, I pray about a couple of minutes a day in the morning.
I pray in the evenings.
It's really good.
And I really thought my practice, my routine was
was good enough until I got to a place where I needed it.
And I realized that my connection with God was so very shallow.
I remember walking into rooms here at this church.
I've been here almost 25 years this coming year.
I remember walking into rooms, sitting in the back thinking, man, I really wanna impact change.
And the Lord's saying, why don't you pray?
I remember being in circumstances with my kids and thinking, man, I really wanna teach them and help them to do the right thing instead of the wrong thing.
And I hear the Spirit say, why don't you pray?
I remember being in circumstances where I felt like I needed wisdom or I needed courage for a circumstance.
You hear the whisperer say, why don't you just pray?
And I realized a couple of years ago that I needed to radically transform my discipline of prayer.
And so I'm very excited about what we're going to dive into over the next several weeks of my prayer.
is that you also get excited about what this series is all about, and you embrace it for what it could be for your life.
And so we'll be talking about reflection, reflection.
What is that all about?
Reflection is this idea.
As you begin to learn how to pause, you allow your mind to look up and understand the truth of who God is.
Now, when you pause, I don't know about you, but my mind wanders.
and I'll use the lens of the world.
I'll use the lens of my bank accounts or of my education or what the person at the red light when it turned green and I didn't hit go fast enough, what they said to me or what sign they flashed me.
I'll see myself through that lens instead of the lens of God's word.
And that's what reflection is all about.
Now rejoicing is synonymous with praise.
Praise this idea of how we give glory and give adoration to the Lord.
I can remember so distinctly as an 18-year-old, I went on a long-term mission trip.
I was three months in India and I traveled with an evangelist and when we prayed, I just, I loved to pray in that moment.
I was praying and the evangelist stopped me.
He's like, we need to work on your adoration of the Lord.
I'm like, what are you talking about?
Like what?
I mean, I'm 18.
I'm trying to craft words and articulate words, but rejoicing is all about learning how to show and tell the Lord how much you love Him.
And so simply speaking, that is what we're going to focus on this morning as we study through God's word and take a look at this structure and at this system that we call pray.
And so I'm gonna show you this in action, reflection and rejoicing here in God's word.
If you would turn with me to Matthew chapter six,
Verse nine through 13, Matthew chapter six, verse nine through 13.
And together, let's see this in action.
I wanna encourage you, try to pick up the flow and the sequence that we see here in scripture.
Matthew chapter six, verse nine.
Here's what the Bible says, our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name, your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven.
Give us today our daily bread and forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our debtors.
And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one.
I don't know what church you grew up in, but as humans, we've probably heard this prayer thousands of times, wouldn't you agree?
It's almost like the most famous prayer in scripture or the most famous prayer in life.
I want to give you like a closer magnifying look at this prayer.
If you look with me at verse nine, you see the very first words, our father.
This word in Greek means pater or like a familial connection.
And one of the most important aspects to reflection is reminding yourself, who is it that you're speaking to?
You're not speaking to just anybody.
You're not speaking to the guy down the street, but you're speaking to your father.
Now most scholars believed
that Jesus taught this a very passage when he taught people to pray that he would teach it in Aramaic.
Now the Aramaic word for father is Abba.
And I'm sure you've heard that word before, but it means dad or daddy.
And Jesus was the first one to attribute this term to the heavenly father.
And as an example, he's giving us this pattern whereby now we can speak to our heavenly father.
When you are praying and reflecting and finding yourself in that moment of pausing and your mind reminds itself that you're speaking to your abba, something changes about your prayer life.
Have you ever felt like your prayer life was mundane or dry or stale?
I often find that I find myself in that place when I've forgotten who I'm speaking to and how precious or how important he is to me.
The lens of fatherhood changes your prayer life.
The lens of Abba will explode and light the ignition, light the flame deep in your soul in regards to prayer.
I don't know about you, but when I was a kid, I used to go out into my backyard and I would grab like a magnifying glass on a hot summer's day.
And I would point the magnifying glass on a dry leaf to kind of figure out, can I light it on fire?
You know, you ever done that?
It would put this like little small dot on the leaf.
And if you hold it there long enough and if you're patient long enough, you'll start to see smoke.
And eventually you will start a fire.
Now the reason why I share this illustration with you is because the lens of fatherhood will set your prayer life on fire if you allow it.
It doesn't happen overnight.
It doesn't happen all in one breath, but if you pause there and linger there long enough, you will begin to see your prayer life take shape.
And I wanna encourage you not to rush by the fatherhood factor in your prayer life.
If you would look here at verse 10, you'll see Hollywood be your name.
This idea for Hollywood means that God is holy.
He's not like you, he's not like me.
We struggle with sin, we wrestle with issues in our life, but God is holy.
The person that we're praying to, praying with is full of character, full of integrity.
He is the one that's purchased our salvation and freed us from our sins.
And then if you look very closely at the scripture,
From here, you're gonna begin to see in verse 10, you see the phrase, your kingdom come.
This is Jesus' way to model for us the shift from reflection into rejoicing.
This is His words to His heavenly Father, your kingdom come.
This is praise and this is His adoration to our heavenly Father, reminding Him that His kingdom is great.
His kingdom is awesome and His kingdom is powerful.
Now look closely at verse 12, you see,
You see in verse, sorry, in verse 11, give us this day our daily bread.
You see the shift?
Forgive us.
You see in verse 12, sorry, in verse 13, lead us.
Those three things forgive us, give us and lead us.
Now he's moving towards his task list or his prayer request or his request to God saying, God, would you please influence and inform our lives?
So you might say, Ruben, why are you belaboring on these simple words?
Point number one, the order of prayer matters.
The order of prayer is very, very important.
One of my daughter, my eight year old, wakes up in the morning.
She'll often say, like with that morning breath, dad, I'm hungry.
Now she didn't say good morning.
She didn't say, dad, you're the best yet.
She didn't say that yet.
She didn't say really anything besides what she needs.
And if you were to translate that to your prayer life, when you go to your heavenly father, you might sometimes feel like it's all out of order.
Now, do you think I say to her, tell me you love me first?
Tell me I'm good looking first.
I don't do that.
I love my kid.
I'm going to make them breakfast, whether they ask for it or whether they don't ask for it, because I love her voice.
I love her sweetness.
Now, my 18 year old, when we go out, you know, and we hang out, or if I make her a steak or make a special dinner, she's always like, Hey, dad, I miss, I missed that state, you know?
Could you make a great dinner?
And Dad, thank you so much.
Like there's a difference between my 18 year old and my eight year old.
You follow me?
And as we grow up in our faith and we grow up in our discipline, we ought to recognize order.
It goes from like a transactional relationship into a love relationship when you can put order in your prayer life.
You wanna try it.
You wanna experience it because as you treasure him for who he is, the way you ask for things changes.
The way you see things in your prayer life changes.
And so order is critically important.
I wanna give you a chance now just for a minute to practice what we talked about.
Sit in this presence, allow yourself to pause.
We're gonna have a moment of silence.
There'll be a little bit of music playing in the background where you can just take a minute and allow your heart to pause.
Allow your mind to reflect not on what's in your retirement account or what's not in your retirement account.
What zip code you live in, doesn't matter at this moment.
What car you drive, what problems you have, whatever clouds your mind in this moment.
But you allow yourself to reflect on the truth of God's word and then allow your heart to spring into praise.
And I'll be back with you in just a minute to continue the Bible study.
So go to him now and experience the beauty of reflection and rejoicing.
Okay, so how was that?
I remember the first time I put a stopwatch right next to me when I prayed and I prayed for like the first minute.
I'm like, man, that was long.
I don't know if you ever feel that way.
If you're new to prayer, maybe you felt like that was the longest minute of your life.
There may be others of you who felt like that was just a second in God's presence and maybe you're somewhere in between.
All of us are in different spaces.
Sometimes you can be walking with the Lord for 20 years
But just because of circumstances, a minute in His presence is hard.
And for some of you, you might be brand new and you feel like you're just so in love with the Lord.
It doesn't matter essentially how long you've known Him.
It matters today.
Are you engaging with Him in prayer?
And the order of your prayer is so important.
I wanna highlight this for you in even a more pronounced way.
And so if you would turn with me to Psalm 77, we're gonna see a Psalmist who struggled with
the presence of God.
This is like an alarming Psalm, and I pray that it is so alarming that it highlights the beauty and the reality and the humanity of what we all go through in regards to our prayer life.
So Psalm chapter 77, we're gonna look at verses one through nine.
Psalm 77 versus one through nine.
Here's what the Bible says.
I cried out to God for help.
I cried out to God to hear me.
When I was in distress, I saw the Lord at night and I stretched out untiring hands and I would not be comforted.
I remembered you God and I groaned.
I meditated and my spirit grew faint.
You kept my eyes from closing.
I was too troubled to speak.
Verse five, I thought about the former days, the years of long ago.
I remembered my songs in the night.
My heart meditated and my spirit asked, will the Lord reject forever?
Will he never show his favor again?
Has his unfailing loved vanished forever?
Has his promise failed for all time?
Has God forgotten to be merciful?
Has he in his anger withheld his compassion?
Do you see the progression as I read this?
Do you see the progression in the verses?
The psalmist is building.
It's almost like he is sitting in God's presence and he meditates and his heart groans.
He prays and he's not comforted.
He tries to focus and meditate on God's presence and he gets more distraught.
Have you ever been there?
Have you ever had a moment in your life where you're like, I'm sitting here, God.
I'm waiting for you.
It's like you're wanting so desperately to connect with God.
But everything that we prescribe, everything that people say you're supposed to do is just not working.
And the reality is there will be seasons like that in your life.
I wanna show you in this Psalm and pay very close attention in the midst of this man's distress, he didn't give up.
And I think the danger in the midst of our trials is that when we connect with God and things aren't working, when we come to the prayer meeting and everybody's praying, people are walking, they got their hands raised and you're like, oh, I just wanted, since God's prisons, I don't feel anything, don't give up.
Keep trying.
One of the words that Pastor Doug, you'll hear all throughout this year is the word practice.
Keep practicing prayer.
Keep showing up.
Keep practicing the things that you see and hear and reading God's word and you're going to see him work.
Now I want to show you the rest of the story and I want you to pay attention to the grammar that we read.
Watch the shift in this Psalmist perspective, verses 10 through 15.
Here we go.
Then I thought to this,
I will appeal the years when the most high stretch out his right hand.
I will remember the deeds of the Lord.
Yes, I will remember your miracles of long ago.
Verse 12, I will consider all of your works and meditate on all of your mighty deeds.
Your ways God are holy.
What God is as great as our God.
You are the God who performs miracles.
You display your power among the peoples with your mighty arm.
You redeemed your people the descendants of Jacob and Joseph.
Look back with me at verse 10.
This literally is reflection right in front of you.
This whole process right here is reflection.
You see him?
Remember the deeds.
He allowed himself to go back not to his circumstances.
Remember the lens?
The lens is the father lens.
He allowed his mind to go back to the truth of God's word, the history of who he is, what he has done in the past.
When we allow the world to be our reflection source, we're always gonna come up dry.
Again, does this mean that this guy's a bad prayer?
No, it makes him human like me and like you.
We're all gonna have those moments where we wrestle and struggle in prayer.
And then he allows himself to meditate
on the history of who God was to him.
Look closely there at verse 14, you are the God, you display your power.
You see, he goes from meditating, reflecting on God, now back to praise.
And I wanna highlight that for you for a moment because just like five verses ago, this guy couldn't stand God's presence.
And then all of a sudden, there's like this shift in his heart.
And if you notice the words here,
in this section.
It's not just that God did something deep in his soul, which of course God did, but he talks about the eye wills or this ability for him to command his soul, tell his soul what's truthful.
And I can't tell you how many times I've put worship music on, or I've tried to articulate words about how good and how great God is, but my heart just can't do it.
And so in the midst of those moments, I've got to command my soul to do such.
I've got to allow myself to say the words even when I don't feel the words.
And maybe you're in a season like that today.
Maybe you're in a season where you've got to say the words by faith.
You've got to practice the discipline out of sheer discipline and sense of control over your own mouth because everything in your life doesn't make sense.
Praise is a weapon when you wrestle.
And if you're in the midst of a wrestle in your life today, do not forget to rejoice in God's goodness.
I have this spot that used to be private, but it's no longer private.
It's the levee out in Coral Springs.
I'm sure you've been there because all of Broward County goes there now.
They've increased all the parking if you notice.
And when I go out there and I watch the sun set, it's like this beautiful display
of God's grandeur, His power, His love for me.
And so when I'm in the midst of the hardest wrestles in my life, that's my spot.
If you ever see me out there like, you know what's going on.
I'm crying out to God and I'm trying to get some things fixed that need to be adjusted in my life.
If you look really quickly, praise is a weapon when you wrestle.
But in verse 15, you redeem your people.
God is at work, brothers and sisters.
Even when we don't know it, even when we can't feel it, he is at work in your life and he's at work in my life.
So point number two, if you're taking note is that rejoicing or praise changes you.
It changes you.
When you allow the practice and the discipline to take root in your life, when you rejoice by faith, when you rejoice by discipline, when you praise on purpose, when you praise when things are the hardest, it will change
your heart and it will change your perspective.
So how do you rejoice with God?
How do you live a life of joy regardless of what's happened?
You see, the Lord invites us into this lifestyle.
He doesn't just command us into the lifestyle, but he invites us into this relationship of praise.
He invites us into this discipline of prayer to help us when we struggle the most.
It's like a muscle that you develop
When you praise on purpose, when you praise strategically, there will come a time where you're like, oh yeah, oh, oh, look at that, I'm lifting that.
I have a friend and he trains me in the gym.
And one of the worst exercises for me are squats.
I don't know what happens, but when we do that, like my legs are in pain for like weeks.
Like I go to put my shoes on, oh my gosh, I'm gonna die, I'm gonna fall over.
I'm going to play soccer with my daughter.
I'm like, I can't even move.
Oh my goodness.
Like, is this bad for me?
Maybe I should stop.
You know, I start to convince myself that working out is horrible and I should not continue.
But the truth is, is that there are, there are pains that are good for you.
There are stressors in life that will build you.
And this sort of practical strategic praise in the midst of your storm will develop a muscle that's essential for the struggles, the problems, the storms of life.
And so rejoicing will change you.
He bends his ear to us in those moments.
You know that God is more quick to hear you than you are to pray?
Like he's just waiting.
He's just waiting for you.
And the moments where you feel like you're forgotten, he's like, I'm right there.
I love to hear my kid's voice.
I love this morning at like 7 a.m. One of my daughters, my oldest daughter who lives in North Florida now called me early in the morning.
I saw the phone like, what?
What is she?
Seven on Sunday.
I guess it's her day off.
What is she doing?
But she's here.
Hey dad, I just want to check on you.
You know what that does to my heart?
Like it warms my heart because there's a love between us that will never change.
She's my kid.
In the same way your heavenly father, dear Lord, here we are.
Right here, God is attentive to your voice, attentive to your cry.
And he hears you and he sees you.
And so I want to challenge you that we're going to take two minutes now.
to practice this.
And so we'll have like a moment here where you can just reflect in the Lord and just practice reflection and be diligent to rejoice.
Command your soul, communicate to the Lord what you feel.
Maybe if you're not like a talker like me sometimes, I have a journal where I kind of track and just write every single day where the Lord's doing, maybe write out your prayer.
If you're the kind of person that's like, I just want to stand up because I just love God so much, stand up then.
If you wanna kneel, if you wanna get out of the aisle a little bit and just make some space so that you can rejoice, maybe you wanna change your posture, that's the case, great.
Have this time, there's two minutes where you can reflect and rejoice in God's presence and I'll be back up to lead you through the last part of our Bible study.
I realize that for some of you, this is challenging.
And to spend this sort of time in God's presence, you might feel a little bit more like the Psalmist in the first half of the Psalm than you want to admit.
And I get that.
I wanna tell you, I wanna remind you that it's hard to hold anxiety and praise at the same time.
The more that you hold onto praise,
I don't know, I can't explain it to you.
I'm not a psychologist or a therapist.
I'm just a pastor and I know that it's true that God will meet you in your deepest depression.
He meets you in your greatest trial.
He meets you in your moment of greatest anxiety and he does work in you.
Researchers have noted that the more that you practice joy is the more that you're able to express gratitude.
And the more that you express gratitude is the more that you
feel joy.
It's like this upward spiral and you wanna pay attention to those upward spirals in your life as well as the downward spirals because if you find yourself in a difficult time maybe it's time to just change your music choices to praise.
Maybe it's time to practice gratitude in a way that will change your life.
Most researchers will say that there is actual positive benefit to your body
when you practice gratitude and joy, your sleep patterns change, your worries change, your blood pressure can change, there's effects on you as a human as you practice joy and as you communicate gratitude.
And so I wanna give you some scriptures about that in the book of first Thessalonians chapter five.
We see Paul's writings here, just three verses that are
They seem a little bit impossible, if I were to be honest with you.
Let me read them for you and then you can join with me in musing about Paul's writings.
First Thessalonians chapter five, verse 16, the Bible says, rejoice always.
Pray continually.
Give thanks in all circumstances for this is God's will for you and Christ Jesus.
I mean, consider that.
I looked up the original language for the word at all times continually.
Do you know what the Greek word is?
An English transliterated?
It's all the time.
It's not very hard, but yet it feels so hard, doesn't it?
Doesn't it sometimes feel like Paul's writings are this impossible?
This past fall, I went to Greece and I went on a trip called the Footsteps of Paul.
And for years as a Bible student,
I always looked up to Paul, but always saw his writings as unattainable.
One of our first stops was a place called Thessaloniki.
And in Thessaloniki, it's his first port that he came into.
And a lot of his writings is all about his troubles, his struggles, his issues that he went through to get to the place that he was.
And so from my complete perspective of Paul change in that very moment, because he writes like this because of the life that he has.
He doesn't write like this because he's like, yeah, I rejoice continually.
So you should too.
I pray all the time.
So come on, church, get with it.
No, he writes that way because he realizes the struggle has goodness for you.
And so he tells us, he tells us here in this verse, rejoice always.
Remember the time in Philippi when Paul was in jail?
He sat there with shackles on his hand, shackles on his ankle.
What was he doing?
He was praying and praising God.
Remember that story?
And remember the shackles came off, the door came down.
I stood there in Philippi at that same jail cell and I'm like, man, do I rejoice and pray always?
Because when I don't have the practice of praying and rejoicing the moment that my shackles are on or my shackles are on my ankles or the doors are locked in my life, will the prayer pattern be there?
Start today, you might say, gosh, continually all the time, that's a tall battle, but I wanna encourage you got to start somewhere.
Defiant praise, defiant prayer in the midst of the time that you don't want to is the time that you need to and that you ought to.
The time that you don't feel like praising is the very time that you ought to praise the Lord by faith.
Defiant praise, defiant prayer and tenacious hope, a hope that doesn't let go because
He will not let go of you.
You might say, well, what does it mean to pray continually?
How do you do that?
It's like this disposition or this attitude that we walk through in life.
You know, if you hold a compass, that compass is always noted to point towards magnetic north, right?
So you know, whichever way you turn, you're able to know which way north is because that arrow will always be pointing that way.
Our hearts as Christians,
should always be pointing upwards towards heaven in our Lord Jesus.
So no matter which way our lives turn, no matter which wave comes into our circumstances, we're able to know that it's for our good, for his glory, and he will hold on to me so that I can hold on to him and praise him no matter what the circumstance is.
For me, for me, I've got to have like a structure
I've got to have scaffolding around my life to help me to understand that.
And so I like to wake up just early enough where I can have quiet in the house, where there's nobody like asking me for oatmeal.
Nobody asking me for coffee.
I can have some time with the Lord, but not too early because I want my kids to wake up and see their dad praying.
I want to be able to get my time with the Lord, but also inspire them to get
their time with Him.
So you might say, well, Ruben, I'm just not a morning guy.
I just don't do it like that.
I'm like, okay, fine, but find your structure.
Find your rhythm throughout my day.
I've got alarms on my phone.
And those alarms are intentionally put there so that I can remember to pray.
You might say, wait a second, man, you're a pastor.
Like, you've got to remember to pray.
Yes, I do.
The first thing I do is not pray, it's worry.
The first thing I do is get anxious, not get on my knees.
push myself to pray.
I've got to challenge myself to pray.
I've got to have structures for prayer in order to move in that direction.
So what's your prayer rhythm?
What is your prayer life look like?
How will you structure and set up this area?
Point number three, if you want to learn to pray continually, you've got to start today.
Start today.
I know for me, when I was in college getting my degree,
I would often be what we call a procrastinator.
Do you know why I procrastinated?
It's because the projects were big.
They were hard.
I was like, ah, I got this.
I'll get to that tomorrow.
I was faking myself into the art of procrastination.
And then I would stuff it in the last minute.
Often we don't step into prayer because our circumstances feel like Mount Everest.
And so I want to challenge you.
Your prayer life is not going to be perfect.
Things aren't gonna look beautifully right from the beginning, but you have got to begin somewhere.
I wanna give you a couple of practical things that you can take home to consider for your life.
The first one is that if you wanna begin a prayer life, figure out how to repent every single day.
Repent.
You know, like, God, forgive me.
You know, I've been walking with the Lord for 20-something years, and sometimes, you know, as I'm praying, I can simply forget to ask for forgiveness.
What a shame for me.
I sin every day.
If there's things that I do that's like, I also want to repent in front of my wife.
If you're married, repent in front of your spouse.
God, would you forgive me for, I'm sure she's thinking, oh, I guess he realized, repent in front of your children.
Allow them to hear you to repent.
There are some people that just don't know how to repent.
There are a few of them living in my house.
And so I want to show them, not just tell them, repent boy, repent girl.
No, I want to show them that dad is a man of repentance.
and that they can be people of repentance as well and communicate their heart and their hurt before the Lord.
Pray scripture.
You know, if you're like me and you struggle with the words to say and how to articulate, pray scripture.
There's over 650 prayers in God's word.
Pick one of them and practice the rhythm that you see in God's word and just pray that until you develop your own language.
Change your posture in prayer.
You might say, well, what do you mean?
Like I have a seat that I love to pray in.
It's like my seat.
I'm sure you have a seat in your house, right?
When your kid's sitting, it's like, come on, move.
That's dad's seat.
This is my spot where I pray, but I've got to change postures because I also fall asleep in that prayer.
Sorry, that seat.
I do a lot of things that seat, but it's not always praying.
And I want to make sure that I'm changing my posture.
There are several different postures of prayer in scripture.
Peter, in the New Testament, kneeled and prayed.
Jeremiah stood and prayed.
Nehemiah sat down and prayed.
Abraham prostrated himself and prayed.
Elijah put his face between his knees and prayed.
Mary prayed in poetry and song.
And Paul interspersed his prayer with singing.
So there's many different forms and ways and postures of prayer.
The question is, what about you?
Do you practice these postures?
Do you change your postures that you can keep your mind engaged as you pray?
The last thing I want to give you is that you ought to count your blessings every single day.
I call it my golden list.
You know, it's like I walk up and like, God, thank you for this morning.
Like what an awesome morning.
Sometimes we can look at life and see only the negatives.
I'm not sure about you, but I'm a master at negative thinking.
It's like I can see everything that's wrong.
But we have to practice at counting our blessings.
There's this beautiful section of scripture in Daniel chapter six, when he was in the midst of facing the lion's den.
There was a proclamation that nobody could pray in the land except to the king at that time.
And so the people around Daniel were so jealous of his life, they wanted to catch him and put him out of his leadership.
And so if you look with me at Daniel chapter six verse 10, it will be on the screens,
The Bible says, now when Daniel learned that the decree had been published, he went home to his upstairs room where the windows opened towards Jerusalem.
And three times a day he got down on his knees and he prayed, giving thanks to his God, just as he had done before.
So I want to encourage you, count your blessings like Daniel, don't give up on this prayer routine, regardless of your circumstances, allow yourself to be in prayer.
I wanna give you one more space to reflect on the Lord.
And I can tell you that in my hardest of times, when I combine worship with my prayer life, things change.
My kids bought me Apple airbugs.
And so I will walk around my neighborhood and pray and walk and pray and walk and pray.
And during my hardest of times, I find myself from discipline in worship and in prayer at the same time.
And so I want to give you this space.
We're going to invite the worship team up to sing over you, to sing over us.
And as they sing over you, we want to give you this space to pray, to reflect, to rejoice, to spend time connecting with the Lord.
If you want to stand as you're sung over as you pray, wonderful.
If you want to move out into the aisle,
and pray, that's wonderful.
If you want to come to the altar and get on your knees or just stand at the altar and symbolically say, God, I want to grow in this discipline, then you do so.
This is your space.
It'll be a couple of minutes of worship.
And this is your time to connect with your Savior.
Amen.
I'll be back up to close us after the worship song.
It's to you that we bring our worship this morning.
God, we're grateful that you are not just big enough to hear our praise, but you are strong enough to pave the way for our praise through the cross.
Without you, God, we could have not this connection.
And so we just, afresh, say thank you for our salvation.
Afresh, God, we say thank you for forgiveness.
We say thank you for your strong hands that hold us.
We say thank you for your beauty that attracts us.
We say thank you for your eyes that see us.
Lord, you tell us that we are the apple of your eye.
And you don't just see us, but you love us so dearly.
God, you tell us in your word that you love us with an everlasting love.
It's a love that doesn't give up, a love that doesn't let go.
a love that doesn't waver because we didn't give you affection on one particular day or another.
God, your love is consistent.
It's steadfast.
And we can rest in that today.
And so Lord, for your church, for me God, I pray that you would establish and root us in this love.
I pray God that you would cause in us the ability to truly reflect, the discipline to truly spend time in your presence.
And I pray, God, that somehow, some way that you would have caused praise to burst forth in our soul.
God, would you help us to see you for who you are to us?
Would you teach us, God, this important aspect of prayer?
And would you allow us, God, to experience the joy of it?
Lord, I just ask humbly in Jesus' name that you would cause revival to break out in our church.
God, we know that starts with one person at a time.
And so Lord, for those who are here in this place, I just pray God that you would allow personal revival to break forth in your people.
God, would you set a blaze deep in our souls?
God, would you allow purity to come forward from us?
Would you allow integrity to burst deep inside of us?
God, would you allow purity
your glory to rest upon us.
And I pray as we gather in our homes as families that there would be revivals in homes, God, that you would change homes that are cold or distant or full of conflict to places that are full of peace.
God, would you cause marriages that are under stress to be
places of comfort and peace and refuge for husbands and wives.
God, I pray for children in homes that you would just allow them to develop and grow and be just nurtured towards maturity.
God, I pray for roommates and for homes, Lord, that are full of people, God, to be able to have unity and peace.
God, I pray for school dormitories and universities, Lord, in those floors to be full of integrity and wisdom.
God, I pray for your church
to be a place where your flame and your glory is so bright, God, that it causes you to be seen to people that are far from you, God.
Would we be a place that's known for this, Lord?
We cry, we beg, God, would you do this in our generation?
We would be so grateful, God, to be used by you in such a way.
So have your will weigh, God, in our lives.
We are yours, and we pray this in Jesus' mighty name.
Amen, amen.
Before we go, this is such an important time in our service.
I wanna make the gospel available to anybody in the room that doesn't know the Lord Jesus as their savior.
I wanna draw your mind back to the idea about God as your father.
Maybe when I talked about God being your heavenly father, maybe it struck a chord in your heart.
You're like, well, I know him as God.
I know him as,
some being, but I don't know him as father.
I don't know him as dad.
And I can tell you, I was raised in a Christian family and my parents were believing individuals, yet it took me many years to figure out how to call him dad, how to call him father.
I played a certain part, like I had the look of a Christian.
I had a Bible.
I had a Bible that I would make kind of messy and look scrunchy and I would write in it, even to make myself look more like a Christian.
I would be in Sunday school on Sunday mornings, but on Saturday nights, I wasn't living the same lifestyle that Sunday morning kid was supposed to live.
There was anger in my life.
There was bitterness in my life.
There was frustration.
I wandered for many years, raised by loving people.
I had many cousins who weren't raised by Christian parents.
And I felt like, man, what excuse do I have?
I walked in bitterness and darkness for so many years.
And gosh, if that's you this morning and you haven't given your life to the heavenly Father, you haven't given your life to your dad who created you, what a better morning than this morning to make your relationship with God right.
The Bible makes it very clear to us that we all have the same problem.
It's sin.
We struggle with sin.
It separates us from God.
The Bible also tells us that there's a way through that struggle and it's the cross.
The Bible says that Jesus came from heaven
to live a perfect life so that we can have a relationship with Him.
He died on the cross for forgiveness of sins.
And if you've never prayed or prayed to receive Him, we'd like to offer you that opportunity this morning.
The worship team is gonna play a song, and that's your cue.
You come forward and stand at this altar.
I'll pray a prayer with you.
It'll sound something like this.
Dear Lord, I admit that I'm a sinner.
I believe that you sent your son to die on the cross for my sins.
Something as simple as that.
We'll give you a Bible and a Bible study guide
and get you connected to what it means to walk your faith out.
What I would tell you is that the time that I wasted disconnected from God is time that I regret.
And the day that I gave my life to Christ, I've never regretted it a day since not knowing Him.
And so I would just encourage you, if you feel the Spirit speaking to you, don't ignore it.
Come forward now and allow Him to radically change your life.
I've been praying for
you all week.
The one that's in this room that doesn't know the Lord, I've been praying for you.
And my prayer is that you would hear him this morning.
The Washington will sing a song that's your cue to come forward.
I don't know your name yet, but I'll meet you in just a minute out over here.
And the Bible says very clearly that when there's one sinner that repents that there's a party in heaven.
And so.
He sees your tears.
He knows what's in your heart and he receives you as his son.
And so I want to pray this prayer for you.
It's my words, but make them your own.
If you would bow with me, let's pray.
You can say, dear Lord Jesus,
I admit that I'm a sinner.
I believe that you sent your son, the Lord Jesus Christ, to die on the cross for my sins.
I confess him as my Lord and Savior.
Help me to live for him from this day forever.
Amen.
Congratulations.
I'd like to meet you in the back room.
Charlie's gonna take you there.
I'll hear you in a second, okay?
God bless you, man.
Congratulations.
Come on, church.
Let's give it up.
Stand up with me.
We're gonna sing one more song as we leave.
I wanna encourage you this week to take the very reflections and the practices that we did and do them at home and watch your prayer life explode.
Amen?
God bless you guys.
prayer team that's right up here at the front, ready to pray with you.
We hope you take some time this week to pause, to reflect, to rejoice, and we would love to see you back here on Tuesday night for our time of prayer and worship together.
Have a great restful week.
Thanks for listening to today's message.
You know, here at Calvary, we believe a relationship with Jesus changes everything.
And if you've decided to follow Jesus, we'd love for you to text the word believe to 31352 so you can find out what it means to follow Christ.
And to learn more about Calvary and all of our campuses, you're free to visit calvaryftl.org.